# Attributes

Tag attributes look similar to html (with optional comma), however their values are just regular JavaScript.

```pug-preview
a(href='google.com') Google
a(class='button' href='google.com') Google
a(class='button', href='google.com') Google
```

All the normal JavaScript expressions work fine too:

```pug-preview
- var authenticated = true
body(class=authenticated ? 'authed' : 'anon')
```

If you have many attributes, you can also spread them across many lines:

```pug-preview
input(
  type='checkbox'
  name='agreement'
  checked
)
```

If you have a very long attribute or need text interpolation, and your JavaScript runtime supports ES2015 template strings (including Node.js/io.js 1.0.0 and later), you can also utilize that syntax:

```pug-preview templatestrings
- var btnType = 'info'
- var btnSize = 'lg'
button(type='button' class='btn btn-' + btnType + ' btn-' + btnSize)
button(type='button' class=`btn btn-${btnType} btn-${btnSize}`)
```

```pug-preview templatestrings
input(data-json=`
  {
    "very-long": "piece of ",
    "data": true
  }
`)
```

## Unescaped Attributes

By default, all attributes are escaped (replacing special characters with escape sequences) to prevent attacks such as cross site scripting.  If you need to use special characters you can use `!=` instead of `=`.

```pug-preview
div(escaped="<code>")
div(unescaped!="<code>")
```

::: card danger Danger
Unescaped buffered code can be dangerous. You must be sure to sanitize any user inputs to avoid [cross-site scripting].
:::

## Boolean Attributes

Boolean attributes are mirrored by Pug, and boolean values (`true` and `false`) are accepted. When no value is specified `true` is assumed.

```pug-preview
input(type='checkbox' checked)
input(type='checkbox' checked=true)
input(type='checkbox' checked=false)
input(type='checkbox' checked=true.toString())
```

If the doctype is `html` Pug knows not to mirror the attribute and uses the terse style (understood by all browsers).

```pug-preview
doctype html
input(type='checkbox' checked)
input(type='checkbox' checked=true)
input(type='checkbox' checked=false)
input(type='checkbox' checked=true && 'checked')
```

## Style Attributes

The `style` attribute can be a string (like any normal attribute) but it can also be an object, which is handy when parts of the style are generated by JavaScript.


```pug-preview
a(style={color: 'red', background: 'green'})
```

## Class Attributes

The `class` attribute can be a string (like any normal attribute) but it can also be an array of class names, which is handy when generated from JavaScript.

```pug-preview
- var classes = ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']
a(class=classes)
//- the class attribute may also be repeated to merge arrays
a.bang(class=classes class=['bing'])
```

It can also be an object mapping class names to true or false values, which is useful for applying conditional classes

```pug-preview
- var currentUrl = '/about'
a(class={active: currentUrl === '/'} href='/') Home
a(class={active: currentUrl === '/about'} href='/about') About
```

## Class Literal

Classes may be defined using a `.classname` syntax:

```pug-preview
a.button
```

Since `div`'s are such a common choice of tag, it is the default if you omit the tag name:

```pug-preview
.content
```

## ID Literal

IDs may be defined using a `#idname` syntax:

```pug-preview
a#main-link
```

Since `div`'s are such a common choice of tag, it is the default if you omit the tag name:

```pug-preview
#content
```

## &attributes

Pronounced as "and attributes", the `&attributes` syntax can be used to explode an object into attributes of an element.

```pug-preview
div#foo(data-bar="foo")&attributes({'data-foo': 'bar'})
```

The object does not have to be an object literal. It can also just be a variable that has an object as its value (see also [Mixin Attributes].

```pug-preview
div#foo(data-bar="foo")&attributes(attributes)
```

::: card danger Danger
Attributes applied using `&attributes` are not automatically escaped. You must be sure to sanitize any user inputs to avoid [cross-site scripting] (XSS). This is done for you if you are passing in `attributes` from a mixin call.
:::

[Mixin Attributes]: /reference/mixins#attributes
[cross-site scripting]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_scripting
